---
title: Integrated Life
excerpt: >-
  Had a company meeting today that talked about the concept of an "integrated life"; this is my reflection on the talk and that concept.
date: '2025-11-19'
categories: 
  - career
---

My still knew employer has a series of meetings every month under the title "Come Together" as a way to share topics and ideas as well as build community in ways that are just not normally exposed internally within a company. There are monthly topics and the series within that month fall within that topic.  Past sessions have covered individual countries that we have offices in, the concept of playing games as part of building a company and teams, and even just "pets". 

Last month's topic was kind of tied to men and male health, which I'll be honest isn't my favorite. It feels kind of cringe. Not that I want to ignore it or dismiss it, quite the opposite actually. I think men's health is really important and often men ignore it and pretend they're invincible. It is just that my first impression was kind of part of the pushback on things like the #metoo movement and sort of the "reverse sexism" talk track.  But I'm still getting to know this new place so I did my best to not jump to conclusions.  

## Initial Conversation

The specific session I'm writing about was on being leaders in a global company, the challenges they face and tools, tips, and techniques to deal with the stress and balance therein.  I'm not entirely sure what it was about the description that caught my attention and made me make sure that I dialed in and that I wasn't multitasking and getting distracted, but I'm glad it happened.  I still was a little bit multitasking, but I really can't imagine myself ever just sitting there watching some talking heads for an hour without doing anything else. At the beginning of this session, I felt really guilty about what I was doing, but as you'll see through my processing and analysis, it turns out I shouldn't have felt that way. I always have plenty of projects going in the garage and I decided that that sort of project could keep me busy while allowing my brain to still process the discussion that was happening on the meeting.

The initial parts of the meeting were interesting, but sort of in a superficial sort of way. They talked about ways to deal with stress and how long they had been doing jobs like this, and that sort of thing. The speakers were our CEO and the leaders of some global offices -- all of them are successful men that really fit a stereotype I often roll my eyes at (middle-aged successful men running technology companies worth tens and hundreds of millions of dollars). These particular individuals are not cringe, but it's hard for me to listen to them talk about how they manage life stress without a little bit of feeling that my life is very different from their life. That is probably true, but as the talk went on, it was good to hear what they had to say and see them as more level-headed and relatable people than I gave them credit for.

## Integrated Life

What really caught my attention was when the CEO started talking about the idea of an "Integrated Life."  That name is perhaps yet another thing I cringe at because it hits me as sort of another way of saying "always be available".  Like cut out the line between work and life and just be ready to work whenever.  Given the baggage I have with poor leadership around how to run a business and specifically how to treat members of the development organization I took this as working overtime without payment and our lives being at "their" disposal (them here being the leaders).  However, as I listened to him talk more about what this concept means to him it wasn't that at all.  And on top of that he talked about how this concept is something he gives talks about and is clearly passionate about -- this wasn't just some talk track he figured would play well with his own company and this particular audience.

My interpretation of what he calls the integrated life is actually very well aligned to the sort of lifestyle I was after in my job change and something that I believe the pandemic taught us was possible.  The talk track of "work life balance" is tired and beaten down to the point it has become mostly a punching bag for something to refer to when griping about work or looking for a new year's resolution.  A recap I sent a friend afterwards was this:

> If the kids have a thing in the morning then go do it.  If you want to go for a walk with your wife or go shopping for the kids at 11am then do it.  Maybe that works best for you and you’re fine working later so you are still getting your job done.  8-5 workdays aren’t for everyone and don’t force yourself into that if you don’t have to.

In our modern world -- particularly in the development space -- we're connected to our job far more than we would like to admit.  Even if you don't have Slack notifications on your phone or you have setup do not disturb rules there is always a sense of someone being able to reach you if they really "need" to.  For some that's a pretty firm wall they aren't willing to cross but in reality that's almost expected of people nowadays.  

While that feels _new_ to say we're always connected and expected to be on-call for anything it's nothing new.  Doctors have essentially forever been on call and available in one way or another.  Car shops have 24-hour call lines for towing and emergency services.  Journalists are ready to jump into work when a story starts to break.  Even for jobs that have been around since before the industrial revolution we have farmers that literally live on the job with hours around the clock, pastors that live in parsonages often connected to their church and get visits throughout the day, or teachers that do lesson planning at all hours of the day.  

In some ways it is kind of made up and silly to say that jobs need to be cut-and-dry with the 8-to-5 hours that nicely start and cut off. Certainly some jobs have set hours and should stick to that (retail, hourly positions, etc) but a good portion of the jobs in society don't fit into that pattern by definition.  Pairing that with the lessons that the remote-only life-and-work-smashed-together patterns of the Covid pandemic taught us about how effective development organizations can be doing work remotely and asynchronously it seems that forcing that development into the 8-to-5 mold out of habit is at best just poorly justified.  Curtis actually makes the case it's a power play by industry giants to keep them from letting others work outside the box but I'm not sure I'd go that far with it.  To me it's just convenient for the command-and-control patterns of old timer business leaders to keep their false sense of security in place around development teams.






Leaders: I generally am not a big fan of the idea of “men” being the topic for November but I’m trying to avoid getting hung up on it.  Parts of today’s session were a little eye rolley but the part I’m really spending a lot of time processing is when they were talking about “work life balance” and how it is maybe not the best way to think about it especially in a modern remote world.  My first reaction was “ugh” because it sounded like it was going to be “gotta always be connected” but Curtis’ “integrated lifestyle” was described in terms that very closely aligned to what I am trying to achieve with my life now that I’m at Improving.  If the kids have a thing in the morning then go do it.  If you want to go for a walk with your wife or go shopping for the kids at 11am then do it.  Maybe that works best for you and you’re fine working later so you are still getting your job done.  8-5 workdays aren’t for everyone and don’t force yourself into that if you don’t have to.